In this section of the Course will learn about the various types of smart pointers and C++ and how to
use them first will understand why we need smart pointers at all.
After all there must be an issue with the way that raw pointers work that motivated the need for smart
pointers.
So we'll review some of the problems associated with raw pointers then we'll see what smart pointers
are and understand how they address the issues with raw pointers.
One of the most important concepts to understand in this section is that of ownership and RAII or resource
acquisition is initialization.
I'll go over this idiom since it's central to understanding not only smart pointers but resource management
in general.
Then we'll look at each type of C++ smart pointer and see how they work and how to use them.
Ultimately we want to write code that has no news and no deletes.
So all the memory management is handled by C++ if C++ can automatically clean up the heap whenever a
pointer is no longer needed then we'll never leak memory and we don't have to worry about needing to
know when a pointer is no longer needed.
That's the idea anyway.
Smart pointers aren't perfect but they can certainly make our code better in most cases.
First we'll learn about the unique pointer which is exactly what it sounds like a unique pointer to
heap storage that is not shared and the ownership is clear when you know who owns the pointer.
Then you know who needs to delete the pointer or at least C++ knows.
Then we'll learn about shared pointers shared pointers pointers that share common heap storage and can
be very useful.
Then we'll learn about weak pointers and how they can help us avoid a problem associated with shared
pointers.
Finally we'll see how we can use custom to leaders so that C++ can call a specific version of delete
that does exactly what we want.
Smart pointers are a very important part of modern C++ and we want to use them whenever we can to help
us manage memory.